DM-19822: Update the branch protection setting instructions (#334)
lsst-dm/dm_dev_guide: stack/adding-a-new-package.rst

Before adding a new dependency to any of these products, it must be approved through the :doc:`RFC process </processes/decision_process>`.
Consensus must be reached regarding both the name and the suitability of the new package.
Before adopting the RFC, implementation tickets should be created to cover package creation.
Packages that will be optional dependencies to the above root packages do not require an RFC.

After approval, code written internally by Data Management should be packaged following the template in the `lsst/templates`_ repository.
DM packaging of third party code should proceed as described in :doc:`packaging-third-party-eups-dependencies`.

New packages must be added to the `LSST organization on GitHub`_ and access must be granted to appropriate teams. For DM-written code, these include "Data Management" and "Overlords."
For third-party code, use the "DM Externals" and "Overlords" (but *not* "Data Management") teams.

.. warning::

  Failing to assign a team will break the weekly builds.

>   The weekly uses the team membership to determine the type of tag to be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The weekly uses the team membership to determine the type of tag to be applied.
  Having the code reside in the `lsst` or `lsst-dm` organization on GitHub is not sufficient.
```

Before adding a new dependency to any of these products, it must be approved through the :doc:`RFC process </processes/decision_process>`.
Consensus must be reached regarding both the name and the suitability of the new package.
Before adopting the RFC, implementation tickets should be created to cover package creation.

> Packages that will be optional dependencies to the above root packages do not require an RFC.

Reviewer 2: I think "optional dependencies" is slightly inaccurate.
```suggestion
Packages that will not be distributed as part of a release do not require an RFC.
```

After approval, code written internally by Data Management should be packaged following the template in the `lsst/templates`_ repository.
DM packaging of third party code should proceed as described in :doc:`packaging-third-party-eups-dependencies`.

New packages must be added to the `LSST organization on GitHub`_ and access must be granted to appropriate teams. For DM-written code, these include "Data Management" and "Overlords."
For third-party code, use the "DM Externals" and "Overlords" (but *not* "Data Management") teams.

.. warning::

>   Failing to assign a team will break the weekly builds.

Reviewer 2: Also daily.
```suggestion
  Failing to assign a team will break the daily and weekly builds.
```

>   The weekly uses the team membership to determine the type of tag to be applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  These automated builds use the team membership to determine the type of tag to be applied.
```

.. image:: /_static/build-ci/github_merge_button_settings.png

2. Configure ``master`` branch to enable protections.
For ``afw`` this is located at https://github.com/lsst/afw/settings/branches/ and can also be found from the "Branches" sidebar item on the settings screen.

> In the "Branch protection rules" section of that page you will have to click on "Add rule" to create a rul for ``master``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the "Branch protection rules" section of that page you will have to click on "Add rule" to create a rule for ``master``.
```

Add in ``master`` as the branch name pattern and then enable status checks and require that branches be up to date before merging.

> Administrators must be included in these protections since it's all to easy to make a mistake without realizing you have special override powers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Administrators must be included in these protections since it's all too easy to make a mistake without realizing you have special override powers.
```

With checks enabled people will be able to use the GitHub merge button on Pull Requests and know that the :ref:`standard process <workflow-code-review-merge>` is being adhered to.

.. image:: /_static/build-ci/github_branch_protection.png

In the image above no automated status checks are being performed because we have not yet enabled any.
GitHub requires that at least one check runs before the up-to-date checks are enabled so a Travis job **must** be provided if the GitHub merge button is to be used.

> Travis does not replace normal testing done with a :doc:`Jenkins job <jenkins-stack-os-matrix>` but for packages that have been updated to :ref:`use flake8 <testing-flake8>` it is useful to add a simple Travis script like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Travis does not replace normal testing done with a :doc:`Jenkins job <jenkins-stack-os-matrix>`, but for packages that have been updated to :ref:`use flake8 <testing-flake8>`, it is useful to add a simple Travis script like the following:
```

.. literalinclude:: examples/flake8-travis.yml
  :language: yaml

For packages containing C++ that have been tidied up using ``clang`` tools, you may consider adding a Travis check that runs the tidy tool and does a ``diff`` with the repository.

> Shell scripts can also be checked by scalling the ``shellcheck`` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shell scripts can also be checked by calling the ``shellcheck`` command.
```

If nothing seems appropriate a null Travis job should be enabled to allow GitHub to do the checks it needs.
An example null Travis file follows:

.. literalinclude:: examples/null-travis.yml
  :language: yaml

> Once the Travis script has been written and pushed to GitHub, new pull requests will automatically run the Travis checks without any further configuration and the results of the Travis checks will be visible in the "Checks" tab of the pull request on GitHub.

Reviewer: It is not clear to me where one should put a Travis job (e.g., `null-travis.yaml` or `flake8-travis.yaml`) in the repo for it to show up as an option when enabling branch protection. Just in the main repo directory? Later, you mention that if a `travis.yml` file existed before branch protections were turned on, there will be options in the "sorry, we couldn't find any status checks" box. Is this referring to a generic instance of a Travis job script such as the two examples provided here?

GitHub requires that at least one check runs before the up-to-date checks are enabled so a Travis job **must** be provided if the GitHub merge button is to be used.
Travis does not replace normal testing done with a :doc:`Jenkins job <jenkins-stack-os-matrix>`, but for packages that have been updated to :ref:`use flake8 <testing-flake8>` it is useful to add a simple Travis script like the following:

.. literalinclude:: examples/flake8-travis.yml
  :language: yaml

.. note::

   For Travis to recognize the file in the repository it **must** be named :file:`.travis.yml` and be in the repository root.
   Any other name will be ignored and in particular the common misnaming of the file as :file:`.travis.yaml` does not work.

For packages containing C++ that have been tidied up using ``clang`` tools, you may consider adding a Travis check that runs the tidy tool and does a ``diff`` with the repository.
Shell scripts can also be checked by calling the ``shellcheck`` command.
If nothing seems appropriate a null Travis job should be enabled to allow GitHub to do the checks it needs.
An example null Travis file follows:

.. literalinclude:: examples/null-travis.yml
  :language: yaml

> Once the Travis script has been written and pushed to GitHub, new pull requests will automatically run the Travis checks without any further configuration and the results of the Travis checks will be visible in the "Checks" tab of the pull request on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we insist that the script be merged to master, not just pushed to GitHub?
```suggestion
Once the Travis script has been written, pushed to GitHub, and merged to master, new pull requests will automatically run the Travis checks without any further configuration and the results of the Travis checks will be visible in the "Checks" tab of the pull request on GitHub.
```

Author: Appearing on the branch is enough for that branch to enable travis. I couldnt' imagine people not merging it though 😄

Add in ``master`` as the branch name pattern and then enable status checks and require that branches be up to date before merging.
Administrators must be included in these protections since it's all too easy to make a mistake without realizing you have special override powers.
With checks enabled people will be able to use the GitHub merge button on Pull Requests and know that the :ref:`standard process <workflow-code-review-merge>` is being adhered to.

.. image:: /_static/build-ci/github_branch_protection.png

In the image above no automated status checks are being performed because we have not yet enabled any.
GitHub requires that at least one check runs before the up-to-date checks are enabled so a Travis job **must** be provided if the GitHub merge button is to be used.
Travis does not replace normal testing done with a :doc:`Jenkins job <jenkins-stack-os-matrix>`, but for packages that have been updated to :ref:`use flake8 <testing-flake8>` it is useful to add a simple Travis script like the following:

.. literalinclude:: examples/flake8-travis.yml
  :language: yaml

.. note::

>    For Travis to recognize the file in the repository it **must** be named :file:`.travis.yml` and be in the repository root.

Reviewer: Perfect, thank you!
